My name is Tu Weile and I am a 26 year old software engineer who is currently residing in Singapore. My personal achievements thus far involve attaining finalists for a regional AWS hackathon, as well as attaining third place for NTU’s hackathon back in 2021. As for myself, I have lived in Singapore for the entirety of my life, and I was raised in a family with an older brother who is five years older than me. In my own free time, I like to travel overseas with my family and friends, study in free educational courses from Coursera and Udemy, and spend time tinkering and building my own little programming side projects. My favourite cuisine is Japanese cuisine, most notably sushi, and my favourite colour and number is orange and 93 respectively. My birthday is on 10 July 1997. As for my aspirations and my goals, I hope to be able to delve into the realms of artificial intelligence and to be able to develop and deliver software solutions that can have a meaningful impact to existing and developing workflows and frontiers across multi-disciplinary domains. I am currently not interviewing with any other companies for now. My friends describe me to be highly analytical and a conscientious individual with a team-oriented mindset, who is being able to not only lead and delegate work within the team, but to also assist them whenever required.

For my educational background, I am currently pursuing a master’s degree in computing from NUS and I have completed my bachelor’s degree in chemistry and biological chemistry from NTU with a minor in mathematics. My postgraduate computing degree complements with my undergraduate chemistry degree by allowing me to leverage on my technical competencies within the realm of data science and artificial intelligence. For example, for one of my undergraduate modules, I extensively utilized Pandas, Scikit-learn, and PyTorch libraries to predict molecular correlations between different compounds and analyze stereochemistry properties within the organic chemistry domain. My ability to utilize various machine learning techniques to determine new trends and solve challenging processes will allow me to approach and synthesize solutions to tackle existing challenges and use cases.

My motivations behind doing my master’s degree in computing from NUS was mainly given from my prior hackathon achievements and AWS and CKA certificates, along with the fact that I was just starting out my first job in DSTA, I wanted to enroll myself in a postgraduate program so that I can receive a formal computational training from an accredited institution and prove myself and my competencies along with the rest of my colleagues who had graduated from a computing background. By committing to my part-time postgraduate studies and full-time job, I hope to be able to not only improve my own technical competencies, but to also leverage on what I have learnt in university into my work to understand the applicability and standard practices in the technology industry.

For my undergraduate studies, the reason why I chose doing Chemistry was because while I initially aspired to join the pharmaceutical research industry in Singapore, I was also intrigued by the analytical rigour and methodical approach expected from natural science students. Often dubbed the central science, the study of chemistry for me entailed logical deductions and experimentations to validate the different techniques and theories involved. This was also the reason why I pursued my minor in mathematics, as it also involves appreciating mathematical interpretations and theorems that led to its logical conclusion.

Unfortunately for me, the reason why I transited from chemistry to computing was that the area of interest for my pharmaceutical research required me to migrate to the US or Europe, and that I was unwilling to relocate from Singapore back then. While many would agree that a bachelor’s degree in chemistry feels very far afield from computer science, I discovered during my time as an application engineer intern that both fields emphasize on the importance of logical deduction and problem solving. Those were the skills that I have honed throughout my undergraduate years, and once I have realized programming was a passion of mine, I decided to take up postgraduate studies in computing at NUS to strengthen my technical competencies.

For my work experience, I am currently working as a software engineer in DSTA since graduation from June 2022, and that I have also worked as an application engineer intern in Vacuum Technique Singapore from January 2022 to June 2022.

When I worked in DSTA as a software engineer, I was part of the team within the information security domain. My job responsibilities often involve designing, developing, and delivering software solutions to tackle dynamic user requirements. After working in the position for over a year, some of the challenges working in DSTA was that several existing features within our applications were rendered obsolete for unknown reasons, and that our users often complained about the service uptime of our applications, which impacted their operations greatly. In order to fix this, I revamped the logic by developing three data extraction and mining applications and optimized and enhanced existing features within our applications using Python and its libraries such as NumPy and Selenium in PyCharm to aid knowledge discovery patterns. I have also decided to incorporate Docker into our applications, so that rudimentary health checks and auto remediation by Kubernetes can help to improve our service uptime. As a result, this allowed for the service availability of our applications to increase by up to 40%, all while meeting the various use cases imposed by our users in supporting their mission-critical operations.

During my time in Vacuum Technique as an application engineer, I was part of the team that was responsible of liaising with technical clients such as Micron and STMicroelectronics to provide technical documentations for abatement data analysis in their semiconductor projects and manufacturing. Throughout my six months as an intern, there were some challenges in Vacuum Technique where most of data analysis were done manually in Excel, and that many staff members spent hours analyzing and pre-processing data beforehand. Despite the lack of a formal computational background, I took initiative to fix this problem by developing and automate two data pipelines in Python to help process and churn out meaningful analysis and trends out of the abatement data provided and contributed many months of technical documentation to facilitate team-wide knowledge sharing within the team. As a result, the man hours required for data analysis reduced tremendously by up to 30%, and many staff members reported being more productive and were able to use up their freed-up time to work on other aspects of the projects.

For my personal projects and hackathons, I have won two hackathons thus far and have received an honourable mention for an artificial intelligence undergraduate module I have taken back in university. I previously emerged as a finalist for the regional Amazon Web Services Build On, ASEAN 2021 hackathon and have won third place in NTU Basecamp 2021 hackathon back then. My honourable mention involved developing two data analysis tools in Python for the module “Artificial Intelligence for Chemistry”.

When I was participating in the Amazon Web Services Build On, ASEAN 2021 hackathon, I was partnered with Carousell, a Singapore consumer marketplace application, to deliver new technical solutions to enhance their business use cases and utility to both buyers and sellers. Whilst tackling the problem statement issued by them, there were challenges in the AWS hackathon where some of the key issues buyers experienced using Carousell involved the lack of a third-party trust verification to determine the authenticity of the products by sellers, and that independent polls and compilation done by me revealed that this undermined user confidence in the platform as seller reviews and ratings can easily be spoofed online, resulting in a loss of trust in P2P transactions. To fix this problem and convince the panel of my idea within a tight deadline, I developed and published multiple code and model prototypes using various AWS services such as AWS Lambda, S3, and Sagemaker and in Python and Node.js programming languages to build an interactive 3D media display of the product based on the images provided by the seller, so that buyers can inspect the products beforehand and facilitate P2P transactions reliably. As a result, my developmental efforts have not only allowed me to attain a finalist award from the competition, but it has also enhanced my AWS cloud expertise and gave me numerous opportunities to try for AWS technical certifications to broaden my technical skillsets.

Throughout my time in NTU Basecamp 2021 hackathon, I was tasked to deliver a solution to promote mental wellness and to address mental wellness issues within the student population in NTU. During my time as a participant, there were some challenges during the NTU Basecamp hackathon where I noticed that within the local context, mental wellness issues is not a well-recognized topic in Singapore, given the Confucianism upbringing of many university students here in Singapore, and that this project encompasses multiple responsibilities and parties from NTU students, staffs, and professional experts. This project required detailed research and analysis of the information, as the issue of mental wellness is a complicated matter. To address this challenge, I formulated, developed, and deployed a natural language processing model in Python capable of detecting emotional and sentimental analysis from the messages sent by the student, and that I linked several useful mental wellness resources within the ease of a Telegram bot through its API to both facilitate its costs as well as the ease of use within the student population. As a result, this project not only emerged third place within the hackathon, but the school has also offered $1,000 of operational funding to set up the necessary technical infrastructure to maintain and deploy this application for use within the student population for a year.

As for my project during my undergraduate module “Artificial Intelligence for Chemistry”, students were tasked in a project to use Python packages such as NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn, and Tensorflow to simulate numerical simulations within organic chemistry as an introduction to computational chemistry. Whilst in a group, challenges from this project arose where there were several areas of improvements that can be made on the existing dataset presented to us, and that optimizing and developing new data analysis tools will produce more comprehensive analysis for our project. In order to fix this problem, I developed two data analysis tools in Python programming language to provide a comprehensive report in the analysis of stereochemistry properties of organic compounds, as well as optimized regression and deep learnings models to predict molecular correlations and its properties by up to 30%. As a result of these additions, not only was I able to obtain a good grade for the module, but my team has also received a personal commendation from Dr. Lu Yunpeng through the overall data evaluations and presentations provided.

For my volunteer work in NTU, I held multiple leadership and executive positions such as being the Head of Logistics for my school’s orientation event in 2020, where I took charge in planning the logistics and procurement effort during the COVID-19 pandemic back then. I was also the President for NTU Motoring Club from 2019 to 2020, where I administered and hosted several workshop initiatives from different vendors to promote a safe driving environment for all NTU students and staffs within the campus.

As for what I know about the company, I know that SAP is a German international software company that is the leading enterprise resource planning software vendor. The products developed by SAP include SAP ERP, S/4HANA, and many more. SAP provides implementation services by helping business and deploy SAP software into their operations for finance, human resources, and logistics. SAP’s Singapore office is in 30 Pasir Panjang Rd, Singapore 117440. As for its values, SAP embraces the values of sustainability, diversity and inclusion, and corporate social responsibility. For SAP’s competitors, its competitors include IBM, Salesforce, and to a lesser extent, Microsoft.

As for the internship job that I am applying for, I understand that the job requirements as an AI Engineer intern are not only working alongside with AI scientists, engineers, product owners, and communicating with stakeholders to understand SAP business processes and challenges, but it also involves designing Generative AI solutions for use cases and experimenting with different data science and prompt engineering technics for end users’ validation. The reason why I want to work in SAP as an AI Engineer intern is because not only does working in SAP allow me to refine my technical competencies and learn from experienced professionals within the world’s leading enterprise resource planning software vendor, but I am confident that these qualities I have learnt from my past experiences and achievements would allow me to bring value to SAP and uphold similar standards whilst contributing to the design and delivery of solutions under the realm of generative AI and prompt engineering. Working with others to build new solutions and learn new processes has always been enjoyable for me, and I hope to be given an opportunity to likewise share this sentiment during this SAP internship opening.

For my programming languages, I am proficient in Python and Java, with rudimentary C++ knowledge. I have also worked with many Python and Java libraries and frameworks, mainly Pandas, Scikit-learn, Selenium, and Spring Boot. When it comes to databases, I am well-versed in SQL and making queries to obtain the necessary data needed from large datasets. Docker and Kubernetes are also some of the technologies I implement DevOps into the solutions I develop.

For my certifications, I have attained my AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate (SAA-C02) back in April 2022 and my AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CLF-C01) back in February 2022. I have also attained a Certified Kubernetes Administrator by The Linux Foundation back in July 2022.

Despite these achievements, I have also experienced setbacks, failures, and weaknesses as well. A notable example was during the AWS hackathon, where during the developmental stages, I was not extremely adept with programming at that time. This presented an issue, as the hackathon had a tight deadline, and I was still expected to deliver as usual. To take on this challenge, I took the initiative to learn Python and AWS from online educational platforms such as Udemy and Coursera to make up for my technical shortcomings. As a result, not only was I able to develop and deliver the solution just in time, but my efforts paid off as I was able to make it to the finalist round with my submission.

For my contact information, you may wish to contact me my phone number at +6581002610 or from my email at tuweile@u.nus.edu. You may also find my LinkedIn page at https://www.linkedin.com/in/tuweile/ and my GitHub repository at https://github.com/TuWeile.

I do have some questions about this SAP internship, although I am afraid this is only a virtual persona of myself. For my inquiries, I would definitely love to know what a typical day is like working in SAP, and what are some of the most important attributes your team looks for when joining SAP. I also would like to know how my work performance would be evaluated, and if possible, would there be any opportunities for a full-time return offer? Nevertheless, I look forward to hearing from you and you can reply back to me from my contact details tuweile@u.nus.edu.
